-Hello, everyone, and welcome
back to the attic.
As many of you know, I've been
doing the show from home
despite some non-ideal
circumstances,
specifically I only have
three shirts,
and they come in three
different varieties --
blue, blue, and a slightly
lighter blue.
And, yeah, I'm aware that this
makes me, as the kids say,
"basic," but in fairness,
I've been slightly distracted
from wardrobe questions by the
fact that there are wasps --
actual wasps buzzing around my
head.
And if you don't believe me,
here's one zipping by
during Tuesday's monologue.
But don't worry.
That's not just any wasp.
That's Nick, our segue-writing
wasp, and speaking of segues,
the White House is calling
their response
to the coronavirus pandemic
a success story
even as the country passes
grim new milestones.
You've done it again, Nick!
For more on this,
it's time for "A Closer Look."
♪♪
We've now surpassed
one million coronavirus cases
and 60,000 deaths
in the span of about two months.
Now, regardless of where
you stand politically,
that's a staggering
heartbreaking number,
or as Donald Trump put it
at the end of his press
conference on Monday,
job well done.
-Let's do one more, please,
in the back.
-If an American President
loses more Americans
over the course of six weeks
than died in the entirety
of the Vietnam War,
does he deserve to be
re-elected?
-So, yeah, we've lost
a lot of people,
but if you look at what original
projections were,
2.2 million.
We're probably heading
to 60,000, 70,000.
It's far too many, one person
is too many for this,
and I think we've made a lot
of really good decisions.
I think we've made a lot
of good decisions.
I think that Mike Pence
and the task force
have done a fantastic job.
I think that everybody working
on the ventilators,
you see what we've done there,
have done unbelievable.
The press doesn't talk about
ventilators anymore.
They just don't want to talk
about them, and that's okay.
But the reason they don't want
to talk --
That was the subject that nobody
would get off of.
They don't want
to talk about them.
So, no, I think we've
done a great job.
-Oh, boy. He should not have
taken one more question
because that was a brutal way
to end a press conference.
You know when they heard
that question
in the Fox News control room,
they basically said,
"Quick, cut to an
Acorn stair lift commercial.
What do you mean
you don't have one?
No, we should always
have it ready.
Well, for reasons like this."
Trump must have been kicking
himself for taking one more.
That was like that moment
you start talking smack
during a game of Jenga.
"Yeah, I'll grab another block
with one eye shut. Oh [bleep]"
And you know as soon as he heard
the word "Vietnam,"
he probably thought to himself,
"Vietnam, am I going to have
to dodge you again?"
He's so bummed you can't use
make-believe bone spurs
to get out of Vietnam questions.
[ As Trump ] I'd love to
give you an answer,
but unfortunately, I feel, uh,
what I fear is a spur
in my bone,
back again, so I'm going to
have to call it a day.
[ Normal voice ] And, of course,
the press doesn't want to
talk about ventilators.
Nobody wants to talk about
a critical shortage
of life-saving medical
equipment.
The reason it was such
a hot topic for a while
was because everyone was afraid
we were going to run out.
Thanks to Americans staying home
to flatten the curve
and states sharing equipment
with each other,
we avoided
the worst case scenarios.
No thanks to you.
You're like the mayor showing up
at the end of "Jaws" saying,
"Oh, so I guess the press
doesn't want to talk about
sharks anymore?
Okay.
Well, I would love to know.
'Cause I'm the mayor and I'm
still a big shot in this town.
If we're not talking about
sharks, let me know."
In fact, here's how unhelpful
the president was
when it came to procuring much
needed ventilators for states.
BuzzFeed News reported Wednesday
night that a random dude
tweeted at Trump that he could
make ventilators,
and then the White House
helped that guy
get a lucrative contract
to make ventilators,
which he never produced.
On March 27th, Trump posted on
twitter to urge Ford
and General Motors to start
making ventilators now.
One of the thousands of replies
that the tweet attracted
struck an equally urgent tone.
"We can supply ICU ventilators,
invasive and non-invasive.
Have someone call me. Urgent."
Its author was an electrical
engineer in Silicon Valley.
A specialist in mobile phone
technology,
he currently has just 75
followers on Twitter
and no apparent experience
in government contracting
or medical devices.
Honestly, how long until
he replies to a spam e-mail
offering free boner pills?
I mean, I guess we'll know
exactly how long
the day he turns to Dr. Birx
in the middle of a press
conference and says...
[ As Trump ]
There's also a chance that --
Correct me if I'm wrong,
Dr. Birx,
that boner pills might possibly
be an effective treatment
for the virus,
so if someone had a surplus
of boner pills,
that person could possibly
be a hero?
Dr. Birx, I see you've wrapped
your head in scarves again.
I can't hear you. It's muffled.
When you talk through
the scarves,
it just comes through as
muffles.
[ Normal voice ] I mean,
right off the bat,
there are so many red flags
there.
First of all,
there are major companies
that make ventilators,
so if a guy with 75 followers
is tweeting at you,
he's probably not,
you know, a power player.
CEO of General Electric doesn't
spend all day replying
to individual people on Twitter,
"I can get you a microwave.
Have someone call me. Urgent."
Second, making mobile phones
has nothing to do with
making ventilators.
Ventilators help you breathe,
while phones,
at least in the meantime,
help you hyperventilate.
Oh, I just got an alert.
The president says,
"Ingesting bleach cures
male pattern baldness.
[Breathlessly] Oh, my God.
Oh, I'm hyperventilating.
[ Normal voice ]
And yet, incredibly,
Trump actually took
this guy seriously.
Three days later, New York State
paid Oren-Pines
69 -- wait-for-it --
million dollars.
The payment was for 1,450
ventilators,
at least triple the standard
retail price of high-end models.
Not a single ventilator
ever arrived.
State officials said New York
entered into the contract
at the direct recommendation
of the White House
Coronavirus Task Force.
This is insane.
I mean,
we're talking about a guy
who is the most powerful person
on Earth.
There is literally a law
that allows him
to compel companies
to make ventilators,
and he's combing through
his Twitter replies
like he's putting
a band together.
"Oh, okay. This guy's got
his own amp.
That could really --
that could really come in handy
if we had somebody
with their own amp."
Trump had the chance
to act early
to prevent both a public health
crisis and an economic one,
and instead he chose to ignore
and downplay the threat,
or as he put it yesterday
at the White House...
-This plague should
never have happened.
It could have been stopped.
But people chose not to stop it.
-Oh, people chose not
to stop it? Why so coy?
Pray tell, Donald, who are
these people you speak of?
[ As Trump ] This plague
never should have happened,
but someone
really dropped the ball.
I'm not going to name names,
Mike Pence.
[ Normal voice ] Hey, maybe
he was talking about
his spectral son-in-law
Jared Kushner.
Kushner has supposedly played
a central role
in the administration's
coronavirus response,
and on Wednesday, he said this
to "Fox & Friends."
-We're on the other side
of the medical aspect of this,
and I think that we've achieved
all the different milestones
that are needed.
So the government,
federal government
rose to the challenge and this
is a great success story.
-This is a success story?
You're not even a success story.
You're only in the White House
because Ivanka
lost Tom Brady's phone number in
one of her sweatshop handbags.
You shouldn't be anywhere near
the White House.
You should be confessing to
Christopher Meloni
at the end of an episode
of "Law & Order."
Seriously, we have
one million cases,
60,000 deaths,
and 30 million out of work.
If this is a success, what would
failure have looked like --
The Statue of Liberty
getting laid off
and developing a weed habit
in quarantine?
Kushner also defended
the administration's push
to prematurely re-open
the economy
before there are plans to
effectively contain
the spread of the virus.
-The goal here is to get people
back to work.
The eternal lockdown crowd
can make jokes
on late-night television,
but the reality is,
is that the data is on our side.
-Oh, my God.
First of all,
thank you for watching.
[ Chuckles ] Sorry about that
Tom Brady joke, so stupid.
But also, I'm kind of terrified
that you're watching.
Now I'm going to have nightmares
about that tiny door back there
creaking open
and seeing Jared Kushner's face
in the shadows.
Second, no one wants
eternal lockdowns.
If I see another one of my
friends holding up
a janky loaf of homemade bread
on Instagram,
I'm going to run outside
and lick a banister.
We want a plan for re-opening
things safely.
You think I don't want things
to open up?
I used to do a show with
multiple shirts and zero wasps.
I worked in a building that had
50 lunch options.
Now the only thing on the menu
is whatever the boys
don't finish.
Which isn't much, mind you,
because the 2-year-old
eats like a horse and he has
the dumps to prove it.
I just changed his diaper.
You know when I'll have
to change the next one?
Based on recent patterns,
any minute now.
You know what this, bro?
You know what this is
right here?
It's a [bleep] space heater.
And I have it because
I'm cold all the time.
I always feel like
you just looked at me.
I mean, I used to have
an audience
of human beings who laughed
at jokes.
Now the only thing watching me
are the dead black eyes
of a stuffed elephant rocker.
So, yeah, I want to go
back to normal, too.
Now, not only is
the administration's response
not a success story,
in reality,
we're learning that the death
toll is almost certainly
an undercount, according
to analysis of CDC data
by "The New York Times"
this week.
And if you're looking for
a metric to compare
our so-called success story
to actual success stories
in other countries,
there's this --
We recorded our first case
of coronavirus
on the same day that South Korea
recorded theirs.
And this week, while we
were passing 1 million cases,
South Korea was reporting
that they had reported
no new domestic cases
of COVID-19
for the first time since
February.
That's right. In South Korea,
they're down to zero
new domestic cases,
while over here,
the president is suggesting
we should gnaw
on the Tide To Go pens
like they're bread sticks.
And not only is our case load
much higher,
but the federal government
has also failed to provide
any leadership at all in
responding to that case load.
In fact, Trump has failed
so spectacularly
to provide any coherent
federal coordination
that states have essentially
divvied themselves up
into regional partnerships
to work together,
basically forming
mini-federal governments.
There's a Western States Pact
that includes
California and Oregon,
a Midwest partnership between
Illinois and Michigan
and five other states,
and a regional advisory council
of seven states
including New York
and New Jersey.
First of all,
I just want to say,
I'm genuinely happy to see
New York and New Jersey
working together after
their years long feud
over who actually owns the Jets.
"It's you."
"No, no, no, no, no, no.
You take them. We're good."
"No, no, no, I think
it's definitely you."
Second, look at this,
I knew Republicans
loved the confederacy, but
I don't think they literally
wanted to break up the Union.
The country is broken down
into districts,
we're facing meat shortages,
and the postal service
is warning it could collapse.
We're like a week away from
Trump announcing
the first annual hunger games.
[ As Trump ] Pennsylvania,
who do you send as tribute?
[ Spooky Philly accent ] We send
a most enticing creature.
[ Normal voice ]
Pretty good Philadelphia accent.
[ Spooky Philly accent ]
His name is Gritty.
[ Normal voice ] In fact,
just to give you an idea
of how miserably that Trump
has failed
at even the most basic aspects
of his job,
here's a truly insane story
about what officials in Illinois
had to do just to get masks
for healthcare workers
without federal leadership.
Illinois officials tracked down
a supply
of 1.5 million potentially
life-saving
N-95 respirator masks in China
through a middleman
in the Chicago area and
negotiated a deal to buy them.
One day before they were
expecting to complete
the purchase, they got a call in
the morning from the supplier,
informing them he had to get
a check to the bank
by 2:00 p.m. that day,
or the deal was off.
Other bidders had surfaced.
Illinois' Assistant Comptroller
Ellen Andres
jumped into her car and raced
north on I-55
with a check for $3.5 million.
They arranged to meet
in the parking lot
of a McDonald's restaurant
just off the interstate
and they made the handoff there.
That is insane.
We're talking about
protective gear
for frontline healthcare workers
and states are forced to do
million-dollar deals
in McDonald's parking lots
like they're buying meth
from Walter White.
If New Mexico wants to buy
ventilators,
they're going to have
to go to the basement
of Los Pollos Hermanos.
So, needless to say,
good news is hard to come by
these days, but on Wednesday,
we did finally get
some genuinely good news
when it was announced
that a potential therapy
for COVID-19
had proven effective in a
randomized clinical trial
as Dr. Anthony Fauci explained
during a meeting
in the Oval Office.
-Right now, I can bring you
one of the best headlines
since coronavirus took hold
of the United States.
Here it is, the potential
for a true treatment.
Now, there are no approved
medications for coronavirus.
But just a short time ago,
the nation's leading infectious
disease expert
said the result of this
randomized controlled study
for this drug called remdesivir
is according to Dr. Fauci,
quite good news.
Why you ask?
Because it showed remdesivir
appeared to be effective
and helped people recover more
quickly once they were sick.
-The data shows that remdesivir
has a clear-cut significant
positive effect
in diminishing the time
to recovery.
This is really quite important
for a number of reasons,
and I'll give you the data.
It's highly significant.
It is a very important
proof of concept.
Because what it has proven
is that a drug
can block this virus.
-You know when Trump heard that,
he so badly wanted to pipe up
and say,
[ As Trump ] All right,
that's great news,
but should we maybe pair that
with lights?
Just next time we do a study,
give them that?
You know, remdesivir
and then maybe a lava lamp
or something might double
the effectiveness,
and then we'd both be right,
you know, the scientists
who spend time with clinical
studies and then me,
the guy who said "light."
[ Normal voice ] But what's
especially notable about
this genuinely promising news
is that it comes after months
of the president floating
one unproven miracle cure
after another,
each getting more desperate and
more dangerous than the last.
-It's a little like the regular
flu that we have flu shots for
and we'll essentially
have a flu shot for this
in a fairly quick manner.
You take a solid flu vaccine,
you don't think that would
have an impact
or much of an impact on corona?
-No.
-They're going to have vaccines,
I think, relatively soon,
and they're going to have
something
that makes you better and that's
going to actually take place,
we think, even sooner.
And I hope they use
the hydroxychloroquine.
It will be a gift from heaven,
and it works.
Is there a way we can do
something like that?
By injection inside
or almost a cleaning?
I would like you to speak
to the medical doctors
to see if there is any way
that you can apply
light and heat to cure.
-When you heard
an 18th-century doctor
say "apply light and heat
to cure,"
you knew were a goner.
"So, bad news, the leeches
didn't work.
But we can still try
light and heat.
Though, maybe,
get your affairs in order."
It's not hard to look at
countries like South Korea
and see what an actual success
story would have looked like.
We could have had
an early robust response
to contain the spread
of the virus
and allowed things
to remain open.
Instead I'm stuck here
in my attic dodging wasps
while I try to tell...
-Jokes on late-night television.
-[ Shivering ]
[ Breathing heavily ]
[ Exhaling sharply ]
-This has been "A Closer Look."
♪♪
We've been talking about
City Harvest during this crisis,
and you have been really
helping.
So if you can,
please continue to give.
Unemployment is going up,
but City Harvest
is keeping their trucks full
to feed the growing number
of New Yorkers
who are turning to them
to put food on their tables.
If you're watching this online,
please, if you can,
hit the "Donate" button.
Stay safe. Wash your hands.
We love you.